---
layout: post
title:  "vimium"
date:   2015-10-10
categories: vim vimium
---
I recently found out about Vimium, a vim keybinding plugin for Chrome.
I've played with Vimperator for Firefox in the past and Vimium is similar -- you use vim keys to control the browser without having to bother with using the mouse.
This is not a comparison between the two plugins, I'm currently using Chrome, so I need a Chrome plugin.
I'm mostly using Chrome nowdays because I have stuff synced between mobile devices and computers, and it's just less work.

In the spirit of Vim, Vimium allows you to navigate by using what are essentially keyboard shortcuts for almost everything you need to do in Chrome.
This gives you productivity increases -- even if all you use it for is simply scrolling around, not having to move your hand back and forth from the keyboard to the mouse is a win.
Not only that, but your fingers aren't even leaving the home row -- I mean you could be using arrow keys too,
but if you're going to move your had all the way over to the arrow keys, then you might as well be using the mouse at that point.
You can also do things like open links in a new tab, close tabs, reopen them, find text within the page, etc etc etc all through the keyboard.
I guess if you aren't the type of person that gets excited about that kind of thing, then you're probably not going to care about or need Vimium.
If that's the case, why are you reading this?
Then again, if you don't give a crap about increasing efficiency, you're probably sitting around doing nothing anyway, so might as well keep reading this for no reason.

I just started using Vimium today, and I'm liking it so far.

I'm using keybindings for:

* scroll up, down, left, right (k, j, h, l)
* change current tab (gt, gT)
* open a URL (o)
* open a bookmark (b)
* close a tab (x)
* reopen a closed tab (shift-x)
* follow a link in the page (f)

There are many other commands available in Vimium, but these are the ones I can recall easily so far.

Vimium allows you to customize your keys as well.  This is nice because if you've changed things around in Vim, you probably want your Vimium keybindings to match.
For example, I have shift-h and shift-l mapped to change tabs (buffers actually, using vim-bufferline) in Vim.
The default is gT and gt, to go tab.  Shift-h and shift-l are back and forward.
I don't know about you, but I hardly use the back and forward buttons in the browser, and it's easier to type shift-h or shift-l than it is to type gT and gt.
It's also easier to remember. To change the keybindings all you need to do is open Vimium, go to options, and enter:

map H previousTab<br/>
map L nextTab<br/>
map <c-h> goBack<br/>
map <c-l> goForward

As you can see, I use control-h and control-l for forward and back.  It's similar to shift-h and shift-l for previous tab and next tab.  h and l are for left and right, so it kind of makes sense to me.

Another thing I didn't like was the default behavior when opening a link (f), opening a new URL (o) or opening a bookmark (b) is to open that content in the current tab.
I prefer to open things in new tabs. To do that, you use the same keys, but with shift (shift-f, shift-o, shift-b).

So once again, the ability to customize keybindings makes things convenient.

map o Vomnibar.activate<br/>
map O Vomnibar.activateInNewTab

This just swaps the functionality of o and shift-o.  The function names (Vomnibar.activate, etc) are listed in the options screen by clicking "Show available commands".
I don't know exactly what my productivity gain is from using Vimium, but I'll say 2.5% for now.

Check out the Vimium github page:  [Vimium][vimium]

[vimium]:  https://vimium.github.io
