---
layout: post
title:  "Home network OpenVPN with docker"
date:   2017-01-13
categories: docker openvpn
---

Somewhat recently, I purchased a security camera & DVR system for my home. It has the ability to view
the camera feeds over the internet through a mobile app.
I also have a Synology NAS which runs some apps like mediawiki.
I wanted to be able to view these resources through the internet remotely from my phone. But I also wanted
to be somewhat secure. I wasn't too keen on opening up and port forwarding 80 and 443 on my router.
Maybe it's a bit paranoid, but I figured those would be common ports that would get attacked, and
who knows how patched a security camera DVR is.

### OpenVPN

OpenVPN is a type of virtual private network (VPN). They create a secure "tunnel" for traffic between two
points by encrypting it. VPNs can be used to connect a remote machine to a network, behaving
as if it were physically connected to that network. For example, a laptop could connect to an office
network from home or from Starbucks, use the network printer at the office, connect to the office 
network drives, etc. Since traffic is encrypted, no one in Starbucks should be able to sniff your
traffic and see what you're doing.

This fits my use case of wanting to view network resources on my phone securely. I would be able to
connect over LTE on my phone or from a public wifi to my home network and view the cameras directly 
as if I were on my home network. I wouldn't have to open up ports 80 and 443, instead I could just
use the VPN port. I figure the VPN software is meant to be secure, so it's probably fairly stable and
vulnerabilities get patched.

There are different common types of VPNs, such as L2TP, PPTP and OpenVPN.
They are common enough that they are built in services on some network devices. My router came with L2TP and
OpenVPN features, for example. My Synology NAS can also run L2TP, PPTP and OpenVPN. Iphones come with
support for L2TP. Looking into these common VPN types, I liked OpenVPN since it's open source, highly
secure and highly configurable.

### Configuration

Initially, I tried playing with OpenVPN that was built into my router. I was able to make this work
but the built-in configuration was fairly insecure. There's not much I was able to do, since the router
software is not super configurable. I decided to run OpenVPN on my linux box using docker. I've recently
been playing with docker to familiarize myself with it. Additionally, running OpenVPN in a container
may add some extra protection, since attackers would need to break out of the container if they did
manage to exploit a vulnerability in the OpenVPN software.

The docker image I used had instructions on how to run it, and I also found this tutorial:
link
I basically followed the instructions word for word and it went smoothly. The issues I ran into had
nothing to do with the tutorial:

* Issue 1
Needed dynamic DNS for my IP. This is so I could specify an address in the OpenVPN configuration (the
IP I get from my ISP is dynamic and may change at any time). I didn't have any dynamic DNS earlier. I found duckdns and went with them over a list of others just because they're free and the name is funny.

* Issue 2
My ISP provided modem (DSL) was running as a router with firewall which was blocking the ports I was
trying to open on my own router. To get around this, I looked up the documentation on logging into
the modem and setting it up as a dumb modem (called 'bridged mode' on my particular model). Once this
was set, I was able to successfully hit my port forwarded machine with netcat

nc -zvu my-registered-host.duckdns.org 1194
(connected)

* Issue 3
As far as security goes, I'm not knowledgeable. I looked around for information, and found a few
guides on how to configure your router to be more secure, as well as Steve Gibson's page (link). Steve's
page has some tools which can check how secure your router is. I ran everything there and felt a bit
safer once those were all good.

* Issue 4
To get the openvpn config file onto my iphone, I had to use iTunes to load the file onto the openvpn
client app file area.

Once these things were all configured, I was able to test things out.

* Check IP
First, turned off home wifi (thus forcing my phone to use LTE). Googling "whats my ip" shows your
public IP. From LTE, it showed up as a bunch of crazy hex numbers (IPV6?). When wifi is on, google
shows my IP as my home router's WAN IP.

* Connect OpenVPN client
Once connected, google shows my IP as my home router's WAN IP again. Remember,
this is through LTE, connecting to my home network. Once this worked, it meant I was connected
properly.

* Connect to home network devices
From here, I was able to hit my network devices like my NAS and security cameras. In the previous
blog post, I wrote about dnsmasq and how I created nice hostnames for my network devices. Since my
phone is connected to my home network when it's going through OpenVPN, I'm also connected to my
dnsmasq service. This means I can hit my security cameras with "cameras.home" and my NAS with "nas.home".
I've also set up other stuff like mediawiki (wiki.home), home webapps, etc. In the case of the
security cameras, I have the phone app to view the camera feeds from my phone. The app connected just
fine, and the video quality wasn't that bad!

* Test on the road
Although these tests proved the VPN was working and I could get onto my home network with OpenVPN, there's
nothing like a real test. When I went out for dinner, I opened up my OpenVPN client app and connected home.
Everything went smoothly.

### Conclusion

Things turned out well. I'm able to view my security cameras on my phone, while out on the road. The
connection is encrytped with OpenVPN, so I have slightly more peace of mind. I'm also able to access
my NAS and hit any local home webapps I'm running. In the process I got to play with docker a bit more,
learn some home network troubleshooting, and see how all these things worked. Not bad!
